You’ve written
the topic you chose,
but you can’t deliver
the story just yet.
If you noticed
with all the exercises I gave you,
you’re forced
to choose a character.
A character that will move
the story forward.
Since the narrator can’t be
the only one telling the story.
Even plays that have a narrator,
they need characters
who’ll make the story come to life,
who’ll reveal the story you want,
not just simply narrate it.
For monologues,
it's fine.
because its just one
person saying it,
but that’s a different thing.
Even the monologue
of your chosen character
can reveal other characters.
She can talk about other
characters in her story.
And oftentimes,
she can put himself
into their perspective.
Whatever happens,
you need at least one character
to push the story forward.
That’s what we call the character.
In my many years
of experience as a playwright,
I was also told to make three-dimensional
characters as a beginning writer.
I also reached that point
where I attempted
to write character biographies.
From their birth to their childhood,
who their parents are,
where they live,
how their neighbors see them,
where they studied,
what language they speak,
what their IQ is,
their bood type.
Does she have a mole?
Does she have a birthmark?
Does she have an illness?
Asthma?
And so on.
We go through it one by one.
There are physical,
sociological,
and psychological aspects.
And the combination of all those
form a three-dimensional
character.
You could do that,
But I think this exercise
will only help a little.
Why?
Because there’s a huge difference
between a real 3D human being and a character.
A character isn’t an actual person.
That’s why it’s called character.
In reality,
humans want a lot of things.
We want good food.
We want to be a doctor.
We want our mom to love us.
We want to be famous on television.
We want lots of people
to know us through Facebook
We want a lot of likes
on our posts.
And so on.
We want a lot of things
and various stories can stem
from all these desires.
That's why a person
can be full of experiences.
But at the same time
you can't have one definition for a person.
You could sum up her life,
and she could have traits that stand out
to introduce her character,
but that's not the real person.
When we write a play,
the character usually wants one thing.
The reason for that
is because you only have one story
Especially when we talk
about the protagonist.
She wants something to happen,
she wants to achieve something,
she wants to get somewhere.
the the biggest thing
we're waiting for to be answered is
"Will she get it or not?"
What the character wants
could also be unclear to him,
but it's important
for the writer to know.
In essence, what differentiates
a character from a real person
is the singularity of the objective.
In order to finish the story,
the character only wants one thing.
Whatever traits the character has
could help in attaining her objective
or be an obstacle.
If she wants to win the olympics,
she could get sprained
or contract a severe disease
that would lead to
her foot being amputated.
We probaby don't need
to know her hair color
because that doesn't help
in the character's development.
You coud use other traits
of the character
that could add texture
to her personality
so that it doesn't feel
like she only has one trait.
But that's just
supplementary.
It's not important what
other traits you added.
But for me, whatever traits
you give your character,
whatever traits you add
to the character you nurtured
should eventually become important
in the story she's going through.
You might say,
if it's like that, then "It's not 3D,"
What I'm saying is
it's possible that you don't
entirely know
the character that well,
where you include traits
that's not part of the story.
You can't put everything in.
Remember, the longest you
have is an hour and a half.
Or three hours
if you want it to be that long.
For example, Jesus’ life.
You can’t show
the entirety of his life
just to see his personality.
His long life story
has only one desire:
the salvation of humanity.
Just that.
And when he dies on the cross
and resurrects to heaven,
that's when the story ends
because he already achieved
his desire as a character.
We, as real human beings,
when we achieve our goals
for the day we become happy.
We'll celebrate because we graduated.
We'll celebrate because we got married
and we got what we want.
It’s finally the happiest
moment of our lives.
But there's still tomorrow,
and that never ends until we die.
Characters aren't like that.
She only finishes the story
you chose for him.
But that doesn't mean
she's not three-dimensional.
It just means she's going through
it in one direction.
Directional, not dimensional.
Because in that direction
is where her traits will unfold
which will seem like 3D.
We're just creating the illusion
that this character is a real person,
especially if the style
you chose is realism.
It's difficult to make
a character biography
if your character is a rabbit,
especially if its a children's story.
The most important thing
in choosing
your character's characteristics
is what specific traits
you're going to give him
in order to help or obstruct
the story she'll go through
the situation she'll go through
which you chose yourself
just to see how she'll react.
That's based on the fact that
different characters
will have different ways of reacting.
For example,
in an earthquake,
if your character is brave,
he probably won't faint from fear.
In choosing
the character's traits,
it will also depend on the situation
you'll put him in or give to him,
and making sure that
the characteristics and situation
is what will form or clarify,
reveal or unfold the story
until you reach
the climax and resolution.
Whatever dimension
of that character
that's irrelevant in the general
direction of the story,
you might have to remove.
And if you do remove it,
why did you have to put it?
So what am I getting at?
I'm not saying you should just bring her
to where she wants to go.
Of course, you can expand that.
Later, when we create the conflict,
we'll see that most of the conflicts
that a character faces
are conflicts against
her other identities
For example, in May's scene earlier,
"Should a woman become a mother?"
Those are two identities right there.
The woman as a woman,
probably with a career,
versus the woman as a mother.
We see a character
who has to wear high heels
and refuses to bear a child
and would prefer to wear high heels
because her identity
as a career woman
is clashing with her identity
as being a mother.
That's when the character's
two identities become relevant.
It really depends on where
you’re taking the whole thing.
At the same time, like what I said,
it’s not one after another,
you connect the two
like Lego.
The situation where
you’ll put the character
and how the character
will react to it.